in the last few videos we talked about
stochastic gradient descent and you know
other variations of the stochastic
gradient descent algorithm including us
adaptations online learning but all of
those algorithms could be run on one
machine could be run on one computer and
some machine learning problems are just
too big to run on one machine and
sometimes maybe you just have so much
data you just don't ever want to run all
that data through a single computer no
matter what algorithm you would use on
that computer so in this video I'd like
to talk about a different approach to
large scale machine learning called the
MapReduce approach and even though we
had quite a few videos on stochastic
gradient descent and to spend relatively
less time on MapReduce don't judge the
relative importance of MapReduce versus
the costly penderson based on the amount
of time I spend on these ideas in
particular many people will say that Mac
reduces and leaves an equally important
and some would say an even more
important idea compared to stochastic
gradient descent only it is relatively
simpler to explain which is why I'm
going to spend less time on it but using
these ideas you might be with a scale
learning algorithms to even far larger
problems than is possible using
stochastic gradient descent
here's the idea let's say we want to fit
a linear regression model or logistic
regression model or somesuch and let's
start again with batch gradient descent
so that's our batch gradient descent
learning rule and to keep the writing on
this slide tractable I'm going to assume
throughout that we have M equals 400
examples of course by our standards in
terms of large scale machine learning
you know n might be pretty small and so
this might be more commonly applied to
problems where you have maybe closer to
400 million examples or some such but
just to make the writing on this slide
simpler and then to pretend we have 100
examples so in that case the batch
gradient descent learning rule has this
you have 1 over 400 and this sum from I
equals 1 through 400 through 400
examples here and if M is large then
this is a computationally expensive step
so what the MapReduce idea does is the
following and I should say the MapReduce
idea is due to two researchers Jeff Dean
and Sanjay Ghemawat Jeff Dean by the way
is also one of the most legendary
engineers in all of Silicon Valley and
he kind of a belt a large fraction of
the architecture or the infrastructure
that all of Google runs on today oh but
here's the MapReduce idea so let's say I
have some training set yeah denote by
this box here of X Y here it says you
know x1 y1
down to my 400 examples XM YM so that's
my training sample 400 ring examples in
the MapReduce idea what I'm going to do
is split this training set into
different subsets and I'm going to see
you for this example that I have for
computers or for machines to run in
parallel on my training set which is not
splitting this into four machines if you
have ten machines or 100 machines that
you wouldn't you know split your
training set into ten pieces or 100
pieces or what have you and what the
first of my four machines going to do
say is use just the first 1/4 of my
training sets reduce just the first 100
training examples and in particular what
it's going to do is look at this
summation and compute that summation for
just the first 100 training examples so
let me write that out and computer in
the computer variable temp1
the superscript 1 denotes is the first
machine j equals sum from I equals 1
through 100 and then I'm going to plug
in here exactly that term and so I have
a dictator X I - why I times X I J right
so that's just a that green in to center
up there and then similarly I'm going to
take the second quarter of my data and
send it to my second machine and my
second machine would use training
examples 101 through 200 and you know
computer similar their boss of at m2j
which is the same sum the index from
examples 101 through 200 and similarly
machines to be
and for we'll use the third quarter and
the fourth quarter of my training set so
now each machine has to sum over 100
instead of over 400 examples and so has
to do only a quarter of the work and
thus presumably it could do it about
four times as fast finally after all
these machines have done this work I'm
going to take these temp variables and
put them back together so we'll take
these variables and send them all to a
you know centralized master server and
what the master server will do is
combine these results together and in
particular it will update my parameters
theta J according to theta J gets
updated as theta J minus the learning
rate alpha times 1 over 400 times temp 1
J plus temp 2 J plus temp 3 J plus temp
4 J and of course that we have to do
this separately for J equals 0 you know
up to and within this number of inches
so sorry about breaking this equation
into multiple lines but hope is clear so
what this is what this equation is what
it's doing is exactly the same as that
when you have a centralized master
server that takes the results at 10 1 J
10 2 J 10 3 J 10 4 J and has them up and
so of course the sum of these four
things right that's just the sum of this
plus the sum of this versus some of this
let's
some of that and those four things just
cut up to be equal to this some that
were originally computing a batch
gradient descent and then we have the
alpha times when the 400 alpha times 100
and thus distance exactly equivalent to
the batch gradient descent algorithm
only instead of needing to sum over all
400 training examples on just one
machine we can instead divide up the
workload on four machines so here's what
the general picture of the MapReduce
technique feels like we have some
training sets and if we want to paralyze
across four machines willing to take the
training set and split it you know
equally or splitted as evenly as we can
into four subsets then we're going to
take the four subsets the training data
and send them to four different
computers and each of the four computers
can compute a summation over just one
quarter of the training set and then
finally it takes each of the computers
take the result sends them to a
centralized server which then combines
the results together so on the previous
slide in that example the bulk of the
work in gradient descent was computing
the sum from I equals 1 to 400 or
something so more generally sum from I
equals 1 to M of that you know formula
for gradient descent and now because
each of the 4 computers can do just a
porter of the work potentially you can
get up to a 4x speed up in particular if
there were no network latencies and no
cost of the network communication to
send the data back and forth you can
potentially get up to a 4x speed up of
course in practice because of network
latency is the overhead of combining the
results afterwards and other factors in
practice you get a slightly less than
the 4x speed up but nonetheless this
sort of MapReduce approach does offer us
a way to process much larger data sets
than is possible using a single computer
if you are thinking of applying
MapReduce to some learning algorithm in
order to speed it up by parallelizing
the computation over different computers
the key question to ask yourself is can
your learning algorithm be expressed as
a summation over the training set and it
turns out that many learning algorithms
can actually be expressed as computing
sums of functions over the training set
and the computational expense of running
them on large data sets is because they
need to sum over a very large training
set so whenever your learning algorithm
can be expressed as a sum over the
training set whenever the bulk of the
work of a learning algorithm can be
expressed as a sum of the training set
then map reviews might be a good
candidate for scaling your learning
algorithms to very very big data sets
let's just look at one more example last
thing that we want to use one of the
advanced optimization algorithms so
things on your l-bfgs conjugate
gradients and so on and let's say we
want to train in logistic regression
learning algorithm for that we need to
compute two main quantities one is for
the advanced optimization algorithms
like you know LPF GS and conjugate
gradient we need to provide it a routine
to compute the cost function of the
optimization objective and so for
logistic regression
you remember that the cost function has
this sort of sum over the training set
again and so if you're paralyzing over
ten machines you would split up the
training set onto ten machines and have
each of the ten machines compute the sum
of this quantity over just one tenth of
the training data then the other thing
that the advanced optimization
algorithms need is routine to compute
these partial derivative terms and once
again these derivative terms for
logistic regression can be expressed as
a sum over the training set and so once
again similar to our earlier example you
would have each machine compute that
summation over just some small fraction
of your training data and finally having
computed all of these things they could
then send their results to a centralized
server which can then add up the local
very
add up the partial sums this corresponds
to adding up
you know temp I or the temp IJ variables
which were computer locally on machine
number I and so the centralized server
can sum these things up and get the
overall cost function and get the
overall partial diversity which you can
then pass through the advanced
optimization atom so more broadly by
taking other learning algorithms and
expressing them in sort of summation
form or by expressing them in terms of
computing sums of functions over the
training set you can use the MapReduce
technique to parallelize other learning
adverbs as well and scale them to very
large training sets finally as one last
comments so far I've been discussing
MapReduce algorithms as allowing you to
parallelize over multiple computers that
may be multiple computers and a computer
cluster all the multiple computers in
the data center it turns out that
sometimes even if you have just a single
computer MapReduce can also be
applicable in particular on many single
computers now you can have multiple
processing cores we have multiple CPUs
and within the CPU can have multiple
protocols and so if you have a large
training set what you can do if say you
have a computer with four cores with
four computing cores we can do is even
on a single computer you can split the
training sense multiple pieces and send
the training set to different cores
within a single box like within a single
desktop computer or in a single server
and use MapReduce this way to divvy up
the workload each of the cores can then
carry out the sum over say one quarter
of your training set and then they can
take the partial sums and you know
combine them in order to get the
summation over the entire training set
the advantage of thinking about
MapReduce this way as paralyzing over
cause within a single machine rather
than paralyzing across multiple machines
is that this way you don't have to worry
about network latency because all the
communication all the sending
of the temp jayveer Vols back and forth
all that happens within a single machine
and so network latency becomes much less
of an issue compared to if you were
using this to paralyze over different
computers within the data center finally
one last caveat on parallelizing within
a multi-core machine depending on the
details of implementation if you have a
multi-core machine and if you have
certain numerical linear algebra
libraries it turns out that the some
numerical in the area libraries that can
automatically paralyze their linear
algebra operations across multiple holes
within the machine so if you're
unfortunate enough to be using one of
those numerical than the arcuate
libraries and certainly this does not
apply to every single library but I'll
be using one of those libraries and if
you have a very good vectorized
implementation of a learning algorithm
sometimes you can just implement your
standard learning algorithm in a
vectorized fashion and not worry about
parallelization and your numerical
linearity library could take care of
some of it for you so that you don't
need to implement MapReduce but for
other learning problems taking advantage
of this sort of MapReduce implementation
while finding a using this MapReduce
formalism to paralyze across course
explicitly yourself might be a good idea
as well and could that you speed up your
learning algorithm
in this video we talked about the Map
Reduce approach to parallelizing machine
learning by taking your data and
spreading them across maybe many
computers in the data center
although these years are applicable to
paralyzing across multiple cores within
a single computer as well and today
there are some good open-source
implementations of MapReduce so there
are many users of an open-source system
called Hadoop and using either your own
implementation or using someone else's
open-source implementation you can use
these ideas to paralyze learning
algorithms and get them to run on much
larger data sets than is possible
using just a single machine